hi Gary O'Neil welcome to intuitive
solutions and today I want to talk about
building business muscle and building
business performance and I've always
thought that sports and business always
had this correlation in terms of you
know to be a peak performer in sports is
very similar to be in a peak performer
in business and being successful and a
lot of the same process and strategies
and routines are pretty much the same
you know when you think of a great
athlete like a Michael Phelps I refer to
him a lot because a lot of you know who
he is but you know the first thing he
probably did when he was trying to
understand what his goal was in swimming
is he said a specific goal so he didn't
say I just want to swim faster I just
want to make the Olympics I'm sure he
had several specific goals one may have
been I want to set the world record and
these different events or I want to win
gold medals in the Olympics so he had a
very specific goal and that correlates
even to business where you have to have
specific goals and oftentimes I think
your goals have to be lofty so another
word for lofty just meaning stretch
goals something that maybe is a little
bit out of your reach that you still
have to kind of stretch for to make
happen it's not within your comfort zone
and then the next thing is you know once
you figure out this goal then you plan a
strategy on how you want to achieve the
goal and that's the same in business as
well you know you figure out what you
want to do and then you say these are
the things that I want to do and I think
a lot of businesses forget to plan the
strategy to meet the goal because they
get into just doing active things that
they need to do because there's
deadlines and things like that but then
after that you say okay well the next
step say and I want to make sure that
I'm correlating this back and forth
between athletics and business
is because it's important to see that
the peak performers and the people that
are successful are just going in the
same idea so you get to a point right
you have to make sure you measure what's
going on you want to make sure that what
you're doing is giving you the right
results along the way to meet your goals
and then I know I blame myself to a lot
of time because I don't do that enough
because you know you get into doing all
these different things and sometimes you
forget to say hey is this really
achieving the results that I need to do
especially in the short term because if
it's doing it in a short term that means
as you go along it's just going to keep
building and building and then the next
thing is understanding a routine you
know Michael Phelps you know from what I
understand he works out seven days a
week and the only couple days that he
misses is like New Year's and Christmas
Day or something like that which is
which is amazing so routine is very
important in building your consistency
and another factor that you have to
really understand is a variety because a
lot of times business just like sports
you get into doing something that gets a
little boring and then you start to
gradually kind of fall off and you don't
want to do that so variety is just
allows you to kind of keep energized
keep engaged keep enthusiastic about
different things you're doing whether
it's in your marketing area or your
finance area whatever it is going back
to consistency you know the idea of
consistency to me is a measurement tool
because the more consistent you are with
doing a specific task your results are
going to be indicative of that
consistency so make sure that you're
measuring that because I know we all get
inundated with all different things as
entrepreneurs and before you know it
what you thought you were doing eighty
percent at a time now you're doing
twenty percent at a time so make sure
you understand that you're putting the
right amount of time into that goal so
you're not getting to the end of the
goal saying well this didn't happen the
way I thought it would but you didn't
realize that you actually didn't give it
enough time either pushing yourself to
me is critical because that's the
stretch part that's the part that is
telling you to go a little bit further
be a little bit more engaged in what
you're doing because you know if you
just it's almost like weight lifting you
know if you just sit there and wait
lift the same weights every time you
don't get bigger you don't get more
muscle you know you're pretty much
plateau so you always want to make sure
you're pushing yourself in all areas of
business especially the ones that you've
really focused a real strategy around
and then self-evaluation you know that's
that's the critical part because that's
allowing you to look back and see
exactly where you stand based on the
goals that you set and those goals have
time on so you really want to make sure
that you don't just do loose goals and
finish them whenever you want make sure
that you put a timeline on them because
this enable you to know that you know am
I not pushing myself harder where my
goal is a little bit unrealistic at the
beginning you know it allows you to kind
of bring up all these different
questions so that you can kind of adjust
and make sure that you you're staying on
track anyway I hope you enjoyed the post
I've always liked the comparison between
athletics and business and hopefully
this provided a little insight for you
till next time